This is a text file which should be used to educate someone new to the project (and involves personal reflection which can lead to future projects).

Overview:
This uses the HC-SR04 Sensor. It has 2 piezoelectric tranducers (certain materials which expand and contract when a voltage is applied). One tranducer is the Transmitter 
which is marked as T. This emitts 40kHz sound waves (above the limit of human hearing - the definition of ultrasonic) and the second tranducer is the reciever which is marked
as R. This recieves 40kHz sound waves. Initially, the trigger pin is set to high for atleast 10 microseconds and then low. This voltage spike signals 8 distinct 40kHz waves to 
be emitted. The moment this occurs, the echo pin is set to high, and the moment it recieves a reading, the echo pin is set to low. The time taken to transition from high to low
represents the round trip that the sound wave had to take to be triggered and then recieved. Knowing the speed of sound, using speed distance and time formulae, you can calculate
the distance of the object. 

Current set-up/features:
The HC-SR04 Sensor is attached (with blu tack) to a SG90 Servo Motor which is attached to the breadboard. It can rotate freely from 0 degrees to 180 degrees. There are 2 modes of
rotation, automatic rotation and manual rotation. There is a toggle button which allows you to switch from each. In the code, you are also able to change how quick the automatic
rotation is. By default, it is set to be in sync with the firing of the ultrasonic waves from the sensor. A picture of the set up is found in this repository. 

Problems:
With the ultrasonic sensor, there is noise. This comes from 2 factors: 1. Acoustics (how sound behaves). For example, if the sensor hits a surface at a slight angle, 
those sound waves could be reflected away and thus not recieved by the echo pin. Furthermore, if it hits the desk, it may reflect off the desk, onto the object and then back 
to the sensor which adds to the travel time. I hope to solve this using multiple filtering techniques which will be described in the conclusion. 

2. Electrical interference. For each step the servo takes, it results in current spikes. Although the circuit is in parallel, realistically, every power source/component has 
a small amount of resistance (not negligible). The voltage in the rail = V from source - (I total * Resistance internal). So, a burst of 300 to 500 milliamps from the servo 
multiplied my 1 ohm, for example, causes a temporary reduction in the power rail from 5V to 4.5V. To verify this, I have added modified code which measures the voltage of the 
power rail alongside a screenshot with its fluctuations. Using analogRead, a value of 990 maps to about 4.8V. Theoretically, the sensor's internal amplifier relies on a steady
5V which could lose sensitivity when the echo returns (and thus not amplify it). This could mean that the echo pin is high for much longer and record different values. 

However, I decided to test this myself and found no significant causation between electric interference (voltage drops from 5V to 4.8V) and distance measured. Screenshots
are provided in the electrical interference folder (I added 1020 onto the distance so the effects are more comparable). As a result, decoupling capacitors or any timing tweaks 
in the code won't be significantly beneficial. As a result, the filtering will heavily revolve around the acoustics rather than hardware. 

Whilst developing, another key problem I faced was an efficiency bug between matplotlib and my arduino. Matplotlib always seemed much behind the arduino indicating that the 
arduino was sending more data than matplotlib could process. As a consequence, instead of trying to get matplotlib to render each reading (which meant old arduino readings
piling up), I decided for it to only render each fifth reading. That gave a significant improvement, however, there was still some lag. This is because each time it recieved 
the fifth reading, it would take some time to render again (resulting in pile up from past data). So, I then stall the arduino serial printer function, once 5 pieces of data was
sent, by the time it takes for the render to complete. This means we need to create a "handshake" between matplotlib's rendering and the serial printer. After completing this, 
I realised that it doesn't have to be every 5, the arduino just needs to wait until the handshake. But, instead of getting rid of this feature of every 5, I have made a variable
called increments which allows you to choose how much the onscreen radar increments in degrees.  

Objectives: to filter the data accurately which transfers over to quant/other related skills, develop python mathematical profficiency (whilst offloading work from the Arduino)
and have a GUI radar system.

Conclusion:
My main issue wasn't an occasional spike - it was the flickering from distances by the cm. As of writing, in the python terminal, it is mostly 7.12cm and it sometimes goes to
6.16cm and 5.85cm. As a result, using A-level techniques I am familiar with, I am going to use the Hampel Filter. The problem with a regular normal distribution I found is that
an outlier will change the mean and standard deviation. The Hampel filter is quite similiar but uses the median absolute deviation (MAD). Here is the example from Wikapedia that
helped me understand it. Considering [1, 1, 2, 2, 4, 6, 9], it has a median of 2. The absolute deviations about 2 is [1, 1, 0, 0, 2, 4, 7] which in turn has a median of 1. So, 
the MAD is 1. Now we have calculated MAD, we multiply by 1.4826 to scale it to a regular standard deviation. [Modify this and then done]. 